Episode 23, George.
As head of an international investment group, I tried
my best to avoid speaking to the media at all costs.
But sometimes, there was just no avoiding it, and today was one of those days.
I nodded to my assistant, took a deep breath and walked into the press
centre, where a mob of fifty or so journalists were already waiting.
As soon as they saw me, the cameras started flashing and
the journalists immediately started barking questions.
I sat down behind a row of microphones and held up my hand to quieten the hyenas.
Then, I gave a short statement.
“Whatever we discover about how our investments have been used, I stand by the core
principle that the best way to help people who are oppressed is through investment.
I’ll now take some questions.”
Sally Orlov from News at Eight stood up.
“So, you admit that the people of Ankhazastan are oppressed?
Previously, you told your investors that the country is on the right track…”
Damn, I thought to myself, I shouldn’t have used the word oppressed.
“Well… er… I mean they are… er ‘oppressed’ in a way,
by the unequal distribution of wealth, globally.”
“And are you still a close friend of Miki Unjonginiv?” Sally asked.
“I am,” I answered hesitantly.
A BBC reporter stood up.
“Did you have any idea that the money you pumped into Ankhazastan was being
used to build chemical weapons in contravention of the Geneva Convention?”
I could hear the fake outrage in her voice – an old reporter’s trick.
“Of course I had no idea,” I replied, matter of fact.
She pressed on, “I find that hard to believe – are you
saying that there was no accountability whatsoever…”
“No,” I interrupted, “I’m not saying…”
The reporter cut me off.
“The BBC has come into possession of documents that describe
‘special payments’ being made in the airport project.
Please explain that.”
I sighed.
“There are always what we call ‘miscellaneous costs’ in any project.
They could be licensing costs that we hadn’t expected, for example.”
“In the HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS of dollars?” the reporter demanded.
How could I answer her question?
The truth was, I had screwed up . Of course I knew about the special payments, but
I had thought they were bribes – money paid “under the table” to speed things up.
It was normal for us to pay bribes in countries like Ankhazastan.
It was the way of the world.
There was no way to answer truthfully without making
myself look bad or revealing the skeletons in my closet.
“Thank you everyone,” I said, standing up, “but I’ll have to cut short this press conference
so that my lawyers can examine these new documents… and verify whether they are real.”
The BBC reporter frowned at this last statement.
I walked out of the room the same way I had walked in – with journalists
shouting questions and a million cameras flashing in my face.